---
title: "How to setup SC-GS from CVMI-Lab"
date: 2025-04-19
permalink: /posts/phd/computer-vision/sc-gs
tags:
  - 3D Gaussian
  - Computer Vision
---

# Clone repository, initialise submodule in the repository

```
git clone git@github.com:CVMI-Lab/SC-GS.git
git submodule iit; git submodule update
```

# Use conda to create a closed virtual environment

```
conda create -n scgs python=3.10
conda activate scgs
```

# Install packages (make sure you have a Nvidia GPU and Cuda runtime when running below installations)

There was some changes made to `requirements.txt` file because:

1. `pytorch-ssim` module is removed because it is found to be no longer used in the repository
1. all module versions removed, since we can rely on `pip` to resolve dependencies

Here, we follow https://pytorch.org/ guidelines and always install the latest torch version that the Nvidia GPU can support for optimal performance.

```
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

# Installing submodule toolkit

## diff-gaussian-rasterization

While installing, you might encounter some header files not found issue. It’s likely that because the system packages are not yet installed in your Linux system. If you have `sudo` privileges, you may google the header files and install them directly on your Linux system.

For me, I do not have `sudo` privileges, and I encounter a `glm` header file not found issue. So I used `conda` to install the corresponding system packages. I also need to export some variable such that the installation will not use the default system path.

```
conda install -c conda-forge glm ninja
export CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH=$CONDA_PREFIX/include
```

Then, I can install `diff-gaussian-rasterization` successfully.

```
pip install -e submodules/diff-gaussian-rasterization
```

## simple-knn

While installing, the error prompt some missing variables:

```
error: identifier "FLT_MAX" is undefined
```

To resolve this, you need to include the missing import statement `#include <cfloat>` at the top of these two files:

```
simple_knn.cu
spatial.cu
```

Afterwards, you should be able to install `simple-knn` successfully.

```
pip install -e submodules/simple-knn
```
